Title: The shapening
Date: 2009-02-24 23:13
Author: mark
Category: Personal
Tags: writing
Slug: the-shapening

Everyone has a collection of defining moments in from their past and
they can trot out at least a couple of them without evening having to
stop and think.

Find the person in closest proximity to you and ask them.

Then go ahead and think of two of your own right now. You've lived a
hollow and meaningless life if you didn't immediately have two in mind
at the end of that last sentence. OK, maybe that's a little harsh. But
you could probably have gotten out a bit more growing up.

I have lots of what I like to call secondary defining moments (like the
first breast I ever got to touch that was not in the context of nursing
and belonged to a real girl. More on this later).

But the really insane moments divide your life into two sections.
Everything that happened before and everything that happened after. I've
already talked about [my first time online][] which pretty much cemented
my life as a computer geek. Now it's time to talk about one of the big
ones.

I spent two weeks in the summer of 1993 at the [Fir Acres Workshop in
Writing and Thinking][]. There were about 20 of us. We lived in the
dorms, we wrote every day, took writing classes. I wore skirts, painted
my toenails black, climbed soda machines, read poems out loud in the
Lewis & Clark Chapel and went delightfully insane in a way that I've
never quite been able to replicate (though not for lack of trying).

There was particular moment, the first day of the workshop, when I
realized that things were going to be different. I was in my morning
writing class in an upstairs conference room of the Bodine building. We
were all sitting around a long rectangular table in a windowless room
with zebra curtains along one wall. We had just spent 15 minutes free
writing and we going around the table reading aloud. I even remember the
starting topic which was to talk about what we had brought with us to
the workshop. I remember writing something about bringing a lot of
socks. "One can never have too many socks."

I finished reading my piece and the next kid down the table started to
read and I don't remember the specifics of what he wrote but it was
vulgar, full of profanity, and utterly hilarious. I was shocked. This
kid was swearing in front of a TEACHER and he wasn't getting in trouble.
Not only was he not getting in trouble but that fact that he'd written
something fairly obscene was a complete non-event. I had been writing a
lot for several years at the point but it was all pretty benign and
safe. I hadn't known that people my age could write like that. It was
like being given permission to be dangerous.

Every day consisted of writing. Sometimes it was writing in class, which
I found frustrating at best. I was in Anne's class and, while I feel
sorry for her now, she drove us crazy. She was in love with The Jump Off
Creek by Molly Gloss and most of her exercises revolved around it. My
impression was that the other two classes were much more free-form, that
the students were given more freedom to drive. The consensus in our
class was that we had "moved beyond" what Anne was trying to do and that
she was "holding us back". You have to love the hubris of teenagers. I
really regret now what a hard time we gave her but I feel fortunate that
I actually ran into her again a number of years later and was able to
apologize.

I've gone through so many drafts of this piece, trying to portray things
the way I felt them then and I don't think I'll ever get it quite right.
Here are two memories of the hundreds I have from those two weeks.

***\#1***

<em>It's summer, 1993 in downtown Portland. I am 14 years old and I
haven't slept in three days. I am sitting on the hard floor of the
Oregon History Museum, my jeans stiff with my legs folded underneath me.
I'm holding a notebook with a green cover that I have drawn peace signs
all over. At the time, I am completely unashamed of this fact. I'm
wearing a cheap, sterling silver, marijuana leaf ring that I purchased
from a portable head shop at Saturday Market. The ring is chaffing my
fingers as I scribble frantically. There is a column of pictures in
front of me. Pioneers, wagons, and a haggard gypsy women who's black &
white stare is drilling through me as I write about it. I do this for 30
minutes or so and then move on another picture but I can't recapture the
intensity of that first moment with the gypsy.

Vince and I decide to duck into the museum theater to see the
presentation about witches while the rest of the group moves to another
room. We take seats in the middle of the entirely empty theater. To this
day, I have no memory of the movie because we both fall asleep in the
warm dark of the theater. The three sleepless nights that have been
chasing me finally catch up.

At some point, one of us wakes up and shakes the other. We leave the
theater and try to rejoin the group which has, predictably, left the
museum. There is a bus near a fountain at Saturday Market waiting to
take us all back to campus. Vince and I just have to figure out how the
fuck we are going to find that bus.

Some amount of wandering around outside the museum finds a light rail
stop. Which way to we have to go? Is it uphill? I remember the river. I
know we have to get back to the river and that big bridge with all of
the market booths underneath. We scrounge up the train fare and hop on,
heading through downtown toward the fountain and that bus.

We arrive and the bus is loaded and idling. Teachers are presumably
there scolding us but I only remember the lightness of my feet as we
run, cackling, up the bus steps and collapse into open seats. Lightness
in my feet and relief in my chest that we haven't been left behind.

That I am not alone.</em>

<em>**\#2**

The three and I are sitting in one of the lounges of Alder Hall reading
poems and scratching each others heads. I don't remember a thing we
read, just the feel of many long fingernails digging wonderfully into my
scalp. The smoking of cloves is decided upon and so we walk down the
long stairs past Tamarack lounge on the right and Juniper Hall on the
right. There are at least two cloves between the four of us, being
passed back and forth. My lips are slightly numb and my head is swimming
as we pass the cafeteria, cross the grassy area in front of the biology
building, and down the Albany Quadrangle stairs toward the Fir Acres
theater.

The theater has a rising spiral staircase at one corner that leads up to
a door that is never unlocked. We climb the stairs and sit, smoking in
the dark, with our legs dangling through the green wrought iron of the
banister. There is some sort of leap in my brain now and I lose all
track of time. I don't remember if it is warm or cold but there is
conversation and smoking and stars and my lips are still numb. We are on
lower campus before I am completely aware again. We stuff our pockets
with roses and take communion with them in one of the stone gazebos.
Taking it in turns to kneel to accept the bitter petals into our mouths.
I am wearing red cotton shorts and a t-shirt and no shoes and the
cobblestones of the gazebo are painful beneath my knees. My whole world
is tilting when it's my turn to kneel.

I have a film canister full of mud from earlier the day. We had visited
an abandoned farm with a pond and the sexiness of the mud was discussed
at great length. I open the canister and we paint stripes across our
cheeks and our noses and our foreheads. I spend the next day trying to
avoid washing my face. We're near the fountains now. Near the lion head
that sticks out of the side of the middle terrace and spits icy water
into the reflecting pond. A shared look is passed between us and we are
suddenly stripped down to our underwear and running through the
fountains. Washing our hair in the icy steps below the lion. Painting
his granite face with water.

Reading back through my writings in the days after, I find constant
references to the daub of mud and the crunch of petals.

</em>

<em>**\#3**

(This one is straight out of my notebooks)

I was talking Siri the other day. I had played Toccatta & Fugue and she
told me she had transmogrified. She had been in a room with a playing
organ but no one was playing it. She had on a white dress with no
shoulders and she was sitting in a velvet chair with cloth covered
armrests and there were lots of wooden chairs and tables set up but she
was alone. Then a man with a swirling black cape came in and he stared
at her and she stared back and she kind of wished he would ask her to
dance but she didn't mind that he didn't. Then the music stopped and the
man in black walked out and she returned.

It was just a quick flash. Bright light. She sat stilly, in front of me
at about 10:00pm. She had on overalls and she had a huge bunch of raw
flowers in her lap. Lots of green and purple.

</em>

I had started that summer with two years of high school left. After my
return from Fir Acres, I was determined that the next year would be my
last. I took night classes at the local community college. I arranged to
do independent study for the senior history class. I worked my ass off
and my reward was graduating a year early and getting the fuck out.

I went to Lewis & Clark in the fall of 1994 and graduated in 1998. While
I was there, I met the woman who would become my wife. Another defining
moment.

It's been 16 years since I went to Fir Acres and I still think about it
all the time. It's not an exaggeration to say that those two weeks in
1993 changed me completely. I stopped being afraid after that. I had
found proof that there were people in the world who understood me and
that gave me hope that I could find people like that again.

The course of my life was set.

![Me, Summer, 1993][]

  [my first time online]: https://mark.biek.org/blog/2009/02/a-refugee-from-the-world/
  [Fir Acres Workshop in Writing and Thinking]: https://www.lclark.edu/org/firacres/
  [Me, Summer, 1993]: https://farm4.static.flickr.com/3339/3305955340_0963374d1f.jpg?v=0
