Title: My single-handed destruction of an Ecuadorian cafe
Date: 2009-07-14 08:07
Author: mark
Category: Personal
Tags: ecuador, stupidgringo
Slug: my-single-handed-destruction-of-an-ecuadorian-cafe

![Parque Calderon][]

The heart of Cuenca is the cathedral and the Parque Calderon. At one
corner of the square is the Caf√© Raymipamba, a small restaurant with the
most fantastic toasted chicken sandwiche I've ever tasted. Entering the
cafe from the ground floor, the center of the room is full of tables,
the perimeter lined with booths. Sun from the plaza outside comes
pouring in through the windows lining the front. The small upstairs is
made entirely of wood, lamps hanging over every table, and a low balcony
that opens to the rest of the restaurant.

![Raymipamba][]

It's the spring of 1997 and I'm sitting at a table upstairs, eating my
toasted chicken sandwich, trying desperately to wrap my head around the
dense packet of Cultural Anthropology in front of me. The right side of
my table is pressed firmly against the balcony's bumpy wooden railing.
I'm making progress with my reading, turning page after page. The side
of my binder closest to the balcony is getting taller and taller.

And then it happens.

The massive binder slides over the edge of the balcony onto a long table
below. It hits with a crash like a body falling and food and beer go
flying everywhere.

There is dead silence in that split second after the fall and I leap to
my feet intending to rush below to make amends, completely forgetting
about those god-damned lamps. The beautiful, stained-glass lamps clearly
designed for the average Ecuadorian, not scruffy, six-foot gringos. I
stand straight into the center of the lamp which explodes practically
scalping me and spraying the upstairs with broken glass. I manage to not
pass out or fall over, press a pristine cloth napkin to my bleeding head
and make my way downstairs.

The six-top below is a group of amazingly understanding American
tourists who are, luckily, more concerned about my well being than
annoyed about the destruction I have wrought upon them. I flag a passing
waiter and order another round for their table and then make my way over
to the register where the owner is almost unable to stand from laughing.

I make many attempts to pay for, or at least help clean up, the damage
to the lamp and the table below. Gasping for breath and red faced from
laughing, he refuses my offers. With some difficulty, I manage to pay
for my lunch and slink out.

I stave off my chicken sandwich cravings for almost two weeks before I
am forced to return. I can't tell if the owner remembers me or not and
the evening passes without incident.

  [Parque Calderon]: http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3517/3720518238_34f1b957e0_o.png
  [Raymipamba]: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2671/3720518236_5bb35ab96b_o.png
